this is xiaomi's brand new 14 Ultra and
after almost 14 years of xiaomi phones
having the same old mui software this is
where they reinvent themselves the phone
spec sheet is absolutely jacked it's got
new AI features some of them genuinely
mind-blowing it's got their NextGen
hyper OS operating system and it's
arguably also the most Decked Out camera
system on the planet so in the 2024
smartphone market how does xiaomi's best
compare to Samsung's best the phone that
I've been using every day since launch
the Galaxy S 24 Ultra well for starters
the unboxing experience is just leagues
ahead for three reasons so we got an
insert on top which has the Sim ejector
tool but more importantly one a frosted
plastic hard shell case it's nothing
fancy but it's functional assuming that
you're going to buy a decent quality
case for your phone online anyways then
it's a $20 saving and ironically better
for the environment you got the phone
obviously and a cable like every phone
comes with but this also has number two
a 90 W charging
that's two times the maximum power that
Samsung is able to charge with and the
final thing
is well when you peel the phone you will
also notice a pre-installed screen
protector which as with the Chargers
Samsung does not come with I mean don't
get me wrong screen protectors extremely
cheap but the main benefit from it being
pre-installed is that let's be honest
the company are going to do a better job
than we are and we're not actually done
yet there's a whole separate photography
kit which is this pretty indul package
containing a nicer looking textured case
this one is leather with a specific
coating that highly resists bacteria and
dirt it's got a mount that allows you to
attach physical filters and that also
looks like a slot for a lanyard it's all
a bit excessive for most people but I
can't deny it's cool like these two are
just decorative camera rings to style
your weird phone camera hybrid as you
please and then this is a grip for that
case which plugs into your USBC port to
give you proper Hardware camera controls
as well as three very cool features
which will get to and then oh there's
the lanyard but even putting all this
photography kit stuff aside cuz it is a
separate purchase just the core package
contents of the xiaomi do wipe the floor
with what the Samsung comes with so
that's one point to no points but then
as soon as I picked the xiaomi up I I
started laughing don't get me wrong
there is absolutely Merit to xiaomi's
design I really like these leather-like
finishes it feels clean and grippy and
hassle-free and also having a central
symmetrical camera is nice and practical
for using the thing on a flat surface
however these cameras have become so big
so deep and so weighty that it feels
like they've started to invade the core
phone experience to the point where most
of the people I've handed this to it's
the first thing they notice and they are
completely put off by it especially
compared to the Samsung which is so
great for
bright-hued almost any position and
still avoid the cameras to quote Joseph
in my team here it feels like you're
holding holding a piece of tech stuck
onto a piece of tech and while I can
tolerate it you know I'm always someone
who wants to make sure I'm using the
best tech there is and I'm willing to be
a little bit uncomfortable to do so this
right here is my
issue this phone is so topheavy I
genuinely feel like I'm having to exert
extra grip strength just to keep it in
my hands you feel the urge every single
time you pick it up to hold it higher up
than usual to balance out that weight
distribution but you can't do that
because the camera protrude so much and
takes up half the phone and so you just
end up with this continuous sense of
dredge knowing that at any time one
wrong hand
over and it's a Vista it gets in the way
of wireless charging the camera lifts
the phone up so high that in quite a few
situations it no longer makes proper
contact with the charger or the phone
that you're trying to charge with it if
you're reverse wireless charging I
really needed this thing last week to
save my dying Samsung while I was out
traveling and about an hour into
delicately fiddling with these two
phones trying to perfectly match the
coils to actually get charge from here
to here while avoiding this massive
camera module the size of the Moon I
just wanted to chop the thing off also
this bezel on the back I hate it clearly
this whole thin on the top thick on the
sides thing is a purposeful decision
that xia's made but I just don't
understand why cuz to me it just looks
like they took this leather strip and
misapplied it so pretty clear point for
Samsung with the build and the usability
which makes it 1-1 so far but then you
turn the phones over and you'll see that
xiaomi's done something pretty unique
with the screen a long running complaint
that I've had with their past phones is
they've always had this thicker bottom
bezel and these weird bunny rabbit
looking corners but in one phone they
have fixed both of those things and
taken it further they're calling this an
allaround liquid display which is
indicative of well a how companies are
running out of ways to describe glass
and pixels but B how the panel kind of
melts into the edges and the corners
equally in all directions it's subtle
but I think it's a really aesthetic
effect it's kind of like how 10 years
ago we used to sketch out what we'd
imagine our future phones would look
like and it's definitely cooler than
Samsung's flat display it's more unique
and it's more interesting but that
doesn't make it better both are top of
their game in most aspects bright a high
refresh rate that can fully adapt on the
Fly and ultra high resolution but I
would actually side slightly with
Samsung for this one because for
gestures you have to use the very edges
of the screen and that ends up being on
the curve for xiaomi so it doesn't
register quite as reliably two that even
though Samsung's Max brightness is
technically rated lower in all the
lighting conditions I've tested it in it
seems to be brighter brightness is a
weird stat these days and then what
SEALs it for me is this anti-reflective
coating that Samy slipped onto the s24
ultra it is so good that you almost
forget about the surrounding light and
that makes your screen experience way
more legible as if you had even higher
brightness but without the extra battery
drain that comes with that which leads
us to a score of 1 2 now but we all know
that more and more every single year the
battle for the best smartphone it's a
software battle way more than it is a
hardware battle so let's talk about that
and because it's such a massive category
now we're splitting it into three user
interface software support and AI okay
you might remember xiaomi's Mii it's the
software skin they've had on every phone
ever since the company first started but
I'm guessing that since mi's reputation
was always fairly mid and potentially
holding their hero flagship phones back
they finally decided that it's time for
a redo a new skin called hyper OS with a
ton of new features new animations
greater efficiency and built to work
particularly well with other xiaomi
products so yeah we're talking about the
First full software remake from a
company whose entire Foundation was
based on its software now that sounds
awesome which is why I was slightly
underwhelmed when I booted it up for the
first time and realized well that just
looks like my last xiaomi phone and
that's okay I've never hated the way
that xiaomi's OS looks but it is also
far from my favorite right now it very
much feels like it's trying to be iOS
but just without the attention to detail
or the consistency of iOS and I
particularly do not appreciate the
built-in adverts cuz you would almost
assume given that hyper OS is meant to
be xiaomi's big Breakaway from Mii and
its advert filled reputation that this
would be the opposite their way to
overcorrect and to make it right but
that does not appear to be the case like
the mus have recommend mended apps that
it shows you before you go to xiaomi's
App Store how it takes just one swipe
from your lock screen and you're in an
ad it calls itself a wallpaper Carousel
but really it's an ad in Disguise cuz as
soon as you click on anything you will
be taken to a page with so many popups
it genuinely makes you want to throw up
even on the home screen One swipe and
you see news but it's news in like the
worst possible way to consume news with
two large banner ads on screen at any
point in time and that's on top of the
fact that you already have the Google
news feed with which actually does take
you to the sites that you want to go to
oh but the worst is the notifications
why why on Earth does the Mi browser
need to specifically ping me to tell me
I need to see this random article again
with about 40 adverts baked in now of
course these are all easy to avoid and
you can disable almost all instances of
advertising in the phone so I don't
think it's a reason to not buy it but I
just don't like the feeling that clearly
to xiaomi I am as well as the customer
I'm also the product that they can sell
to their advertisers okay so that was my
pretty bleak first impression of the
software but the more I've used it the
better it has got it for starters you
realize that hyper OS is ultra
lightweight like just for example
Samsung's OS takes up around 17 GB of
your data this is less than 10 and
within that there is still a little bit
of blow wear but the good news is you
now have complete control over it
basically anything on the phone is
uninstallable the lock screen
customization has now opened up and it
not just allows you to instantly nail
one type of look really well but like a
whole Suite of very different Aesthetics
with also room to add your own personal
touches to them it reminds me of the
kind of variation that would have
previously required you to use third
party apps and workarounds but it's
built in and that makes it work so much
smoother but it is still lacking on the
lock screen widgets front they've
cleaned up the control center when you
swipe down just like iOS they've got rid
of all the text that tells you what each
icon is which means it takes a little
bit of getting used to but once you're
used to it it feels clean now you can
fit more icons on screen and instead of
swiping between Pages you just scroll
down now there's new animations and the
whole thing is really fluid I only
really clocked this on like my third
full day of using the phone but it was a
sudden moment of realization of wait a
sec have I had a single bit of lag in my
entire experience no it feels reliably
almost
unbreakables do like you know even when
you haven't opened an app in ages and
you expect it to stutter a little bit
nothing or like this is the camera app
relative to most camera apps this is
slick there's new Gallery features like
some very quirky portrait mode effects
probably a little too quirky for me but
they're fun oh and also cutout which can
instantly just chop your background out
or swap it for something else hyper OS
also has this Dynamic Island like
feature on top for little things like
charging and silent mode and I actually
think it's done pretty well because of
the screen's ability to portray deep
blacks it genuinely feels like your
phone bezel itself is extending down to
create this separate area within your
screen it's a convincing illusion but it
is also early days something like this
is only useful in so much as there are
apps that support it and well not many
apps support it so yeah hyper OS is a
good step in the right direction it is
better than the Mii it's
replacing but I still prefer using
Samsung's 1 UI I think this new version
of Samsung's OS it feels like a really
good balance of playful but mature I
like how you can swipe your
notifications away both ways as opposed
to xiaomi's one way or how you can
expand those notifications in all cases
with a little swipe down that feels so
intuitive to me the customization is
absolutely absurd thanks to Samsung's
goodlock Suite of apps and you can do it
all without any need to get into the
nitty-gritty of installing custom
firmware and the vibrations Samsung's
vibration motor is so good that you
forget there is a vibration motor it
almost fuses the hardware and the
software so that typing for example
feels really tactile and you don't even
immediately know why now that is not
quite the case with xiaomi so I wouldn't
call this a landslide win for Samsung
both phones will absolutely do
everything you need them to do and more
but it's just I think Samsung has
improved this generation more than
xiaomi has with Hyper OS even though
xiaomi is supposedly the one who's had
the big Rebrand and the whole thing with
the ads in the software while it isn't a
deal breaker for me it does leave a bad
taste in the mouth but hey I've waited
through them for the last 2 weeks to
make this video so a sub to the channel
would wow
me okay here's the thing with xiaomi
though one of the biggest complaints
that's often leveled at them is the
software support in recent years Samsung
has massively revamped theirs they went
from promising 2 years of major Android
updates to 4 years and now 7 years on
this phone this s24 Ultra will get
updates until Android version 21 and
that's not a cheap thing to do I was
actually talking to someone I know in
the phone industry someone who actually
makes the decisions for how many updates
their phones get and they were telling
me that they spend an average of a
million per major update per model of
phone they want to get those updates for
and this is where xiaomi does save a bit
of cost there's a fair few of their
Flagship phones in the past that they
have completely just left high and dry
which was extremely sad it's better now
they're offering four full years which
not that long ago to be fair would have
seemed incredible but hey I mean The
Benchmark keeps moving and xiaomi is
consistently catching up so this one
goes to Samsung too let's talk
artificial intelligence with the launch
of the s24 ultra it felt like one of
those mic drop AI is here moments
there's around 10 different AI features
all weaved into various parts of the
software and all available on day one
I'd say about half of them are gimmicks
like fun party tricks that are cool to
try but you won't really use after the
first week and half of them are either
already game changers or they have a
good chance to become game changers in
one way way the entirety of hyper OS is
built around the ability to use AI like
there's this big incoming feature called
hypermind which apparently uses AI to
understand your needs and then execute
things automatically across all your
xiaomi products but hypermind is coming
in a few weeks apparently as of right
now at this point in time there aren't
nearly as many discrete AI features on
the xiaomi as Samsung but that doesn't
mean there aren't any I mean for one
hidden away in the gallery is an
absolutely enormous AI feature called
video effects you pick a clip and then
you just tap and hold on whatever
effects you want to apply to that clip
and it automatically tracks them to that
person in that footage there was a time
not very long ago at all where this
would have to be drawn in by hand and it
would take like a full day just to edit
a 30 second video so the fact that I can
now completely without internet
literally tap and hold my screen to edit
an effect into the video for however
long I want feels like I have just been
granted a superpower and if I was a
little better at the robot this would
look absolutely awesome I tried okay it
can even use its awareness of where you
are to place text behind you which is a
complex effect that if you're doing it
manually with a traditional video
editing program it takes way longer and
requires much more skill than it does
here on your smartphone there are some
AI features baked into the camera too
but I'll get to the camera separately
for this AI category I would say Samsung
still takes it just for the sheer
breadth of AI features but the fact that
what xiaomi has done they have done so
well it does get me excited for what
might be next oh dear the scorecard is
not looking very good for xiaomi right
now but how does the performance measure
up well both phones have the Snapdragon
8 gen 3 processor with Samsung's
Advantage being that they always get
custommade versions just for them that
are slightly overclocked and
specifically optimized and xiaomi's perk
that this goes up to 16 GB of RAM
instead of Samsung 12 so if we're
talking numbers Samsung is a little
higher on CPU and a pretty decent amount
higher on Graphics xiaomi is going to be
able to keep a few more apps suspended
without having to force close them but I
tell you the much Starker difference
between these two is The Thermals
thermals I would say are even more
important than a bit of extra Ram or a
chip being made for Galaxy because in
theory it only matters if your phone is
powerful if it can be powerful while
staying cool and xiaomi does not seem to
be very good at doing that check this
out so this is the wildlife extreme
stress test it basically puts the phones
through 30 minutes of pure pain and in
that Samsung's internal temperature goes
up to 44 xia's 52 Samsung feels way
cooler too on the outside whereas this
especially on these metal rails on the
sides it feels like you could cook an
egg on there here's the really weird
part of it though I have run four of
these tests now and every single time
xiaomi while always getting hotter also
manages to keep its performance higher
there's way less of a drop off after
long strain which is good but
considering that I can see and I can
absolutely feel that it's getting hotter
is also unusual and maybe not good the
way I'm interpreting that result it's
it's almost like xiaomi is being less
conservative with protecting the chip
and the battery in the long term like
allowing the phone to go full throttle
and stay at Full Throttle even if
potentially reducing its lifespan so
I'll give performance a draw just
because who wins really depends on what
you're prioritizing but where I think
you feel this looser power management
more directly is battery everything
about xiaomi's battery experience sounds
like it should be better I mean both
phones have 5,000 Mah batteries but
xiaomi's wired charging is 90 W of power
versus Samsung's 45 xiaomi's wireless
charging is 80 WS versus Samsung's 15
and xiaomi's ability to reverse charge
other phones is 10 W versus Samsung's
4.5 and yet Samsung still takes it for
me for the simple fact that the lasts
longer and not even by an arbitrary
amount it's a full 10 to 15% difference
so for the way that I use my phone I
charge overnight and then I want my
phone to last all day Samsung has enough
of the battery life Improvement that
honestly none of xiaomi's fast charging
chops can win this point back but if
there's one redeeming factor of the 14
Ultra one thing that could still make it
worth it even though it's down bad on
number of categories one it's got to be
the camera right I mean the thing is
massive it feels like it weighs more
than me and this is the key area where
all of these AI features are focused so
every single camera on the back here is
a 50 megap camera and more importantly
than resolution the reason that these
cameras are so much bigger than these
cameras is sensor sizers these phones
have the exact same combination of
camera types but every camera on the
xiaomi is bigger than the respective
camera on the Samsung and that's a good
thing that should mean that providing
the software is as good this will wipe
the floor with Samy over here so does it
do that
well it's got really good fundamentals
like look how smoothly you can
transition between your lenses and most
impressively with zero color shifting
this phone really understands your scene
and yes your photos aren't 100% true to
life of color because of this Leica
collaboration that xiaomi's doing Leica
definitely has a style and you
definitely notice it appearing in your
shots but I don't mind it here what
bothers me is when phones get colors
wrong because they don't know what's
right we had something pretty much like
this with the OnePlus 12 whereas here
you have the confidence that the phone
gets it but it's just choosing a style
and that makes it fun to shoot with the
filters and the automatic vignette
that's applied the huge camera sensors
meaning that whether you use your main
camera your three time zoom camera or
your five time zoom camera you are
getting mive natural cinematic
background blur much more than Samsung
it makes me feel like such a hipster and
I actually find myself using the camera
way more on this phone just for the pure
thrill of it style-wise xiaomi goes for
to smooth images meanwhile Samsung goes
for vibrant sharpened images both are
good but the soft old film style look of
xiaomi combined with its high power
Optics is a really cool combo because it
specifically makes photos look like they
were shot on a big proper like a camera
and by comparison Samsung shots more
often than not they still feel to me
like phone photos great phone photos but
phone photos and what I'm really glad to
see is xiaomi's video performance the
phone is a pretty clear demonstration
that they know how to take good video
video that's detailed video that's color
accurate video that's pretty good at
keeping noise levels in check now one
thing that I will hand to Samsung is
that their focusing is better than xia's
and that's really starting to matter
when you've got big sensors which will
blur anything that isn't immediately in
Focus but the xiaomi 14 ultra's camera
is just too cool to not give the point
to them like it's got four microphones
instead of three which gives it one more
channel to both pick up better audio and
also remove background noise it's got a
variable aperture so you can manually
restrict light intake this camera grip
for a certain kind of user is the best
for three reasons one it's also a
battery it gives the phone an extra,
1500 Mah hours of juice taking the
phone's total capacity with it to an eye
watering 6.5k milliamp hours it funnily
enough actually improves the phone's
weight distribution and makes it more
ergonomic and then three is the
accompanying software this is not just a
slap-on accessory they've clearly
thought about the different things
things that you might want to use it for
the final addition then is the AI and
it's mostly used in the background on
xiaomi you don't really see it except
when you zoom in as soon as you get
Beyond 30 times magnification you know
when most phones start to look like
potato cameras that's where you see this
little red icon come up you see that and
you know that you're about to see magic
because after capturing that photo your
phone isn't just going to do what it can
with what it has it's using extremely
powerful ai ai sophisticated enough that
you can take photo is it even something
stupid like 120 time zoom and the phone
turns it into a legible result this blew
me away and when it works it is by far
the most detailed zoom camera I've ever
used but yeah I do have to caveat it
because the AI upscaling it doesn't
always activate it raises questions like
given that detail here isn't being
extracted it's actually being invented
is that even photography and also it can
make some photos look a bit weird like
in the process of inventing that detail
you'll find yourself with shots that a
decent amount of the time don't quite
have the texture that you know they
should there is also a movie mode on
xiaomi which is great cuz the core video
quality is so high and this mode
specifically it Nails the fundamentals
of Cinema but who shoots a movie in
1920x 800 resolution let's probably talk
again when it can do 4K like the other
phones can overall though I would say
cameras are a win for sham which leaves
us with a score of 3 seven obviously not
all categories are going to matter the
same amount so the reason we've done
this graphic is so that it's an easy way
for you to decide what's important to
you and prioritize that but yeah I do
think that in the battle for the 2024
Flagship Samsung is ahead unless you
really want the xiaomi camera experience
and you're happy to sacrifice to get it